# Transforming-and-Analyzing-Data-with-SQL

## Project/Goals

---
This project looks at sales data from an online store. Using SQL skills to find out important info that can help the business do better. The goal is to show off my SQL skills and improve them further.
## Step 1: Loading the csv Files into a database
First I created a new PostgreSQL database called ```ecommerce```. I set up tables for each .csv file.

## Step 2: Data Cleaning
First, I explored the dataset to understand the information contained within the tables. Taking note of missing/flawed data.

The cleaning_data.md file within this folder of the repository contains my cleaning process and code samples: [cleaning_data.md](https://github.com/Christopher-DSA/DataSciencePortfolio/blob/main/SQL/cleaning_data.md)

## Step 3: Solving Buisness Problems with Data
Next, I started aligning the data with the following buissness problems and began answering questions with the data:

Code samples and work samples: [answering_questions_with_sql.md](https://github.com/Christopher-DSA/DataSciencePortfolio/blob/main/SQL/starting_with_questions.md)

# Step 4: Quality assurance
Finally I did QA on my data and identified risk areas by running queries to validate the accuracy of my results and the contexts which they are valid.

Click here to view the quality assurance process: [QA.md](https://github.com/Christopher-DSA/DataSciencePortfolio/blob/main/SQL/QA.md)

## Results
I discovered this data could tell me a lot about the demographic, revenue and products customers were purchasing on the website the data came from.
I learned that the website had 14,223 unique visitors, most of which came from the United States.
The most revenue was generated by visitors From the United States.

## Challenges 
Learning to understand the buisness process of the website through the data and never being able to walk through how the website works or the context each piece of data was collected for myself was challenging at first, but as I explored the data more I was able to get the bigger picture of how the data was put together.

Data type divison was an unexpected challenge in this project. I created a query to calculate the percentage of customers who visited website and also made a purchase but I would always get the result of 0. The issues was that the data I was dividing was the big int data type. After casting to the numeric type I got the expected result.

## Future Goals
If I had more time, I would search for tools to automate parts of the cleaning process, learning new technologies is never a bad thing.

I would make a flow chart outlining how the business process works and how and when each piece data gets added to the database.
